 New features and bug fixes for Warp Six version 3.0
 =============================================
 - Moved the assignment of variables XA and FF to LOGON from XFER.UTIL to
    make updates a bit more painless in the future.
 - Added some memory management to the entire BBS. It now saves a base set
    of variables needed to operate while a user is online and if a portion
    of the BBS creates a bunch of new variables (many games...) or fills
    up arays (mail and forums) the BBS can now clear those from memory
    before moving on.
 - Users can now logon by name as well as ID#.
 - There is now an optional guest account with a 20 minute time limit. The
    sysop can select an unused account to be set up with security zero and
    set the system for read only in selected forums so new users can peek
    around before applying for an account. This cuts down on validating
    those "one time users" looking for files or whatever...
 - Added some intelligence to the logon procedure. It will now prompt
    users in some cases, such as if they select the wrong ID# by mistake.
    After trying their password 2 times, it will ask if they are "user x"
    and if not they can re-enter their ID#. If their account was
    purged for inactivity, it will notify them of the possibility and ask
    if they wish to apply for a new account. If yes they will be sent
    directly to ADD.USER.
 - Added ANSI auto-detect at logon. You must still supply ANSI screens and
    necessary basic lines for any screens you want to add yourself just
    like with PSE. ANSI uses the PS flag. 0=no emulation, 128=ANSI,
    255=PSE.
 - Added a slightly longer pause before answering a call and before the
    BBS receives control back from the modem driver. This is to fix some
    problems "some" modems have when attempting to auto-detect PSE and
    ANSI. It also gives any Caller ID device you have on the BBS line time
    to receive the CID info between the first and second ring.
 - Added a co-sysop security level (SL-8). SL-8 can now see locked files,
    has access to sysop utilities, and each user with SL-8 has an
    individual remote password separate from the sysop's.
 - "Report to sysop" now supports a mutiple name list to include your
    co-sysops. You can include users with security level lower than 8 also.
 - Added "sysop doing user maintenance" feature. When a user is online and
    at the MAIN menu prompt, pressing OPTION (or Closed Apple) while 
    pressing return at the local keyboard will send the sysop to the sysop 
    utilities. While there, the sysop has access to any functions in the 
    menu plus a couple. Pressing "+" or "-" with this feature will increment 
    or decrement the online user's security level by one (each time it is
    pressed). The user is given a polite message and asked to wait. they
    do NOT see the sysop working. The user is notified when the sysop
    returns (quits from Sysop utilities). Real nice for instant validation
    when you have a caller ID box on the BBS line.
 - Added a "Locate user" function to sysop utilities. You can search on a
    user's alias, real name (last or last and first), or partial last name
    (contains "xxx"). Returns name, alias, and ID# for any matches.
 - The sysop can copy a user to a new ID#. If you need this, use it with
    caution for obvious reasons...
 - Purge will now ignore users with security level above a selected number
    (default=2). The sysop selects the level they wish EACH time purge is
    used. This allows users to have permanent accounts if you wish. Much
    less manual purging necessary.
 - Added a file copy command to SYSOP.UTIL. It was in version 2.5 but you
    had to chain to it using the ProDOS command. Now just select from the
    menu. It supports BATCH copy, move, delete, lock, and unlock. Files
    are selected by number. 20 file maximum to each batch.
 - Moved the menu comand for SORT user list to sysop utilities where it
    really belonged anyway. Rewrote the sort routine for more speed. It
    now uses a SHELL sort instead of the old reliable (but S-L-O-W) BUBBLE
    sort. User lists will be sorted alphabetically  by name or alias based
    on the alias flag for your BBS. Real names are formatted to 2 columns.
    Aliases are formatted to 4 columns.
 - Added a forum queue feature. Users can select which forums they wish to
    read when using Quickscan or Continuous Quickscan. Users can still
    manually enter any forum they wish regardless of their queue
    selections. This feature works with 20 forums. If you have more forums
    than this the BBS won't crash but the user's queues will be ignored.
    You will be prompted when you atempt to add forum number 21.
 - There is now an alias flag for EACH individual forum. If you have an 
    alias system, you can have a real name forum for serious discussion.
 - User selectable screen clear (or not) between each message in the
    forums.
 - Fixed a bug in the forums. If a user tried to MAIL a reply from the
    same message twice, the BBS would log them off with an error #5.
 - Users can now send mail to another user's ID#. Much faster than sending
    to a username. The ID# doesn't need to be searched for...
 - Users can now send multiple carbon copies in Email. Send carbons to
    user names, aliases, or ID#s.
 - Added a door game prefix to SYS.DATA and a door launcher program is included.
 - Changed VALIDATION date to FIRST date on the system. This field is no
    longer updated when a user is validated. This allows a "flag" of sorts
    to see if a user account has been purged and taken over by a new user.
    This was needed to reset some of the new features in version 3.0 for a
    new user. Also good for game scores.
 - Added some info to the caller status block at the top of the sysop's
    screen when a user is online.
 - Modified the "waiting for call" screen. Now shows sysop mail waiting
    and how much new. I got tired of logging on just to check my mail...
    <Grin>

    I was working on a feature to attach files to mail but ran into some
problems. It will not be included in version 3.0 but MAY be in a future
release.
    Frank Kucharski was working on the file transfer stuff and had a
very hectic schedule when work on 3.0 was being done. His changes weren't 
going to be done in time for version 3.0 but we planned to release a new 
version when he was done. The project was abandoned and Frank has sadly 
passed away since then.
    Jim Ferr is working on the drivers and all Asembly portions of Warp
Six. He has made quite a few changes but not a lot of it is not real evident
to the users... The biggest thing you will see is the file list in the
transfer section. It is now displayed in 2 columns.
    Hopefully we will have this released by Christmas. (didn't happen...)
I need to finish debugging, write an updater program, update the help 
files, and rewrite the documentation. Basically all the fun stuff...  :(

Scott Johnson - Warp Six developement team member

**4/20/2017 - I'm finishing this project now upon learning that a Warp Six 
           sysop has figured out a way to put Warp Six on the internet!
